A Tale of Reciepts and Mileage


I have been up since 04:30. I spent an anxious night waiting for my
alarm clock to go off; I got up before it did. Sunday night had been
spent packing my saddle bags. There isn't really that much you can
take on a motorcycle. A pair of shorts, a couple of T's, pair of neat
jeans, and a button down shirt for church. Small clothes and swimming
trunks. I took a shower, which had to last me three days, and had
breakfast. Then I started to load up the bike.

It is 06:10 and the bike is warming up. I snap a picture to
commemorate the start of my trip across Canada. Time to leave. I
forget to put my ear plugs in, but I have to fill up before I leave
the city so I'll put them in then.

********************

Shell Canada
463 Wellington Rd
London, ON

August 3, 2009 06:16 EDT

64112 km
11.871 L

Fill# 01

********************

With a fresh tank of fuel I hit the road for the first leg. I almost
left without putting the ear plugs in. I either have a real problem
with my short term memory or I a really exicted to get on the road. I
will let you be the judge, but my bias in toward the memory. ( I might
just be forgetting the thrill of it all. )

I start my trip on the very exciting 401 Highway. OK, so it is boring
and empty on holiday Monday at 06:30. No one said this story has to be
constant excitement. In fact I'll tell you right now, it is rather
dull. Maybe the fact that the highlights are gas station reciepts
tipped you off to this already. I just wanted this out in the open
from the begining.

My first hour and a half on the road goes by fairly fast, 120km/h for
the most part. I am at Highway 6, North before I know it. This is all
familiar road for me. I travel this section every time I go to visit
my sister Christina in Guelph. As I drive past the Sleeman Brewing Co.,
my usual turn off, I think about all the things that lay before her in
this coming year. Sound for Campus for Christ, leading a womans
discussion group, growing in her relationship with God together with
her boyfriend Nick. I pray for her and Nick. I pray for all the
leaders in Campus for Christ.

I stop for a coffee and donut at Tim Hortons to warm up before I
'really' start my trip. Vacations don't really start until you are
outside of your normal area. I follow Highway 6 North to Fergus and
then take Wellington County Rd 10 to Orangeville.

