A Tale of Receipts and Mileage


I have been up since 04:30. I spent an anxious night waiting for my
alarm clock to go off; I got up before it did. Sunday night had been
spent packing my saddle bags. There isn't really that much you can
take on a motorcycle. A pair of shorts, a couple of T's, pair of neat
jeans, and a button down shirt for church. Small clothes and swimming
trunks. I took a shower, which had to last me three days, and had
breakfast. Then I started to load up the bike.

It is 06:10 and the bike is warming up. I snap a picture to
commemorate the start of my trip across Canada. Time to leave. I
forget to put my ear plugs in, but I have to fill up before I leave
the city so I'll put them in then.

********************

Shell Canada
463 Wellington Rd
London, ON

August 3, 2009 06:16 EDT

64112 km
11.871 L

Fill# 01

********************

With a fresh tank of fuel I hit the road for the first leg. I almost
left without putting the ear plugs in. I either have a real problem
with my short term memory or I a really excited to get on the road. I
will let you be the judge, but my bias in toward the memory. ( I might
just be forgetting the thrill of it all. )

I start my trip on the very exciting 401 Highway. OK, so it is boring
and empty on holiday Monday at 06:30. No one said this story has to be
constant excitement. In fact I'll tell you right now, it is rather
dull. Maybe the fact that the highlights are gas station receipts
tipped you off to this already. I just wanted this out in the open
from the beginning.

My first hour and a half on the road goes by fairly fast, 120km/h for
the most part. I am at Highway 6, North before I know it. This is all
familiar road for me. I travel this section every time I go to visit
my sister Christina in Guelph. As I drive past the Sleeman Brewing Co.,
my usual turn off, I think about all the things that lay before her in
this coming year. Sound for Campus for Christ, leading a women's
discussion group, growing in her relationship with God together with
her boyfriend Nick. I pray for her and Nick. I pray for all the
leaders in Campus for Christ.

I stop for a coffee and donut at Tim Horton's to warm up before I
'really' start my trip. Vacations don't really start until you are
outside of your normal area. I follow Highway 6 North to Fergus and
then take Wellington County Rd 10 to Orangeville.

********************

Petro-Canada
336 Broadway St
Orangeville, ON

August 3, 2009 08:30 EDT

64294 km
9.383 L

Fill# 02

Stats:

distance: 182 km
mileage: 45.62 mpg or 5.16 L/100km

********************

My first fill up on the road also coincides with my first bathroom
break. ( Sound of a needle scraping across a record. ) What is this
guy thinking? Where is the value added content in this information? Do
we, if you pardon the pun, really give a crap? If you answered "He
clearly isn't; There is none; and No!" then you are not alone. It
does, however, afford us the opportunity while the main character is
otherwise occupied to examine some minor, but important, details.

The motorcycle being used is a red, black, and silver 1993 Honda
CBR600F2. This machine has been in the possession of John teBokkel,
our main character, since the spring of 2008. It has already seen a
trip through northern Ontario and 13,000+ km in its first season. It
is currently adorned with Oxford Sport saddle bags, a bright orange
Seal Sack with a bivy sack, sleeping bag, and Thermal Rest inside. This
is all strapped to back as would be expected. Upfront we have a Oxford
Sport magnetic tank bag, which has been zipped off and currently is
safely with our main character. As he finally exits the gas station,
we see that he is also carrying a red back pack.

Ahem! I am telling the story here! Why don't you go make love with a
cactus!

As you may observe this fellow is not always the pleasant type. He has
a habit of saying rude things to people that are just trying to make a
boring tale interesting.

Ha! It is interesting without your inane chatter. I can tell the story
without you. 

And some story that will be! Trees and rocks and rocks and trees and
asphalt and water. Oh, and fuel stops. You need to let someone add
some excitement and paint the pictures.

Oh, alright, but try and keep it to the times when I can't hear. There
is nothing I hate more then listening to myself talk about
myself. Now, where were we?

I was about to describe you checking the straps and getting back on
the bike.

I knew that...

Sure you did....

Highway 9 East out of Orangeville. It is a little depressing that for
the first half of the first day I spend it traveling away from my
final destination. That is hindsight talking, as nothing is depressing
on the first day of a trip. At least when the sun is shining. I drive
on HWY 9 until it intersects with County Rd 27 North. I can't say what
caused me to turn north here instead of continuing on to Highway
400. It is nice to stay off fast highways though and I enjoyed the
unplanned detour. I got on the 400 where it meets Highway 89.

Once on the 400 and moving quickly again. I think of other times I
have traveled this section. Most notably the times driving Christina
up to her nanny job in Perry Sound. Of driving up with Dad to pick up
her stuff after she had to quit. Even earlier then that, the first
time driving the other way, with my dad and sister Angelina when we
first moved back to London to go to school.

As I head north, the skies get more overcast. I get to Perry Sound
before the rain starts, but only barely. I have lunch at Mc
Donald's. The slowest Mc Donald's I have ever been in. There were
maybe 10 people waiting to be served when I got there and it took
about 15 minutes for me to be served when they had 4 cashiers on. As
far as I could tell the drive through wasn't very busy, so I don't
know what the hold up was.

After lunch I go to the Wal-Mart because my bivy sack didn't come with
tent pegs. I also had forgotten a flash light so I thought I would
pick that up there as well. I found the tent pegs and was heading to
the cash when I remembered about the flash light. I go back to look
for one, but am unable to find one. I guess they had them, but not out
in the open. I decide to skip it. As I leave it is spitting so I
decide to get ready for the wet.

After donning my rain gear, I head over to the Shell to fill up.

********************

Shell Canada
Highway 69 and 69B
Parry Sound, ON

August 3, 2009 11:46 EDT

64510 km
10.934 L

Fill# 03

Stats:

distance: 216 km
mileage: 46.47 mpg or 5.06 L/100km

********************

I am on the road for about five minutes and the rain truly starts. I
stop briefly to put the rain cover on my tank bag. Heading off again in
the rain I hope it doesn't stay this measly drizzle the whole
time. It would seem that I was to have a rather miserable afternoon
because it never really rained properly.

For those of you that have never travel in the rain on a motorcycle
I'll explain why the drizzle is the worst rain to ride in. 

First off, there are no windshield wipers on a helmet. Some of the big
touring bikes may have windshield whippers, but then they also have
cruise, two-way radio, gps, heating, and all other kinds of
comforts. They are the RV's of the motorcycles. So where was I? Oh
Yeah, windshield wipers, when you don't have them and it isn't raining
enough for the rain to bead off your visor, you have to wipe with your
hand every 2 min so you can see.

Second, The roads never really get rinsed. Again you non-riders out
there are scratching your heads. What you may not realize is that when
asphalt gets wet the first thing that happens is all the oils rise to
the surface and create a thin film of oil that is very slippery. You
may not notice this in a car, or perhaps you never paid it any
mind. In a normal rain this really slippery time lasts only for a
minute or so, and then the road is rinsed clear. When it is constant
drizzle, that oily bit never really gets properly cleared off. Which
means you have to be super extra careful.

Third, the drivers that would normally see you seem to block you out
completely. They must turn off that part of their brain that registers
motorcycles as soon as the weather turns. It is always a requirement
to ride as though no one can see you, but you have to turn up your
awareness even more in the rain.

So I think you get the picture. Riding in the rain is not much
fun. Don't expect much detail for the next half of the day as this is
what I put up with until I was almost in Sault Ste Marie.

********************

Canadian Tire
2040 Algonquin Rd
Sudbury, ON

August 3, 2009 14:20 EDT

64669 km
7.688 L

Fill# 04

Stats:

distance: 159 km
mileage: 48.65 mpg or 4.84 L/100km

********************

I am cold and wet, I stop at a Tim Horton's and have a hot chocolate
and donut. There were two people at the table across from me that
worked for youth corrections. I don't remember which one exactly. The
only reason I remember them at all was that one was really cute. 

It is difficult to describe someone. You usually start with their
ancestry, African, Indian, German, etc. then you can describe
particular details. I would say that this girl was Canadian. I would
guess that her family have been Canadian for many generations. Most
people would not have found anything particularly beautiful about
her. Most would have called her plain, but there was something about
her. A shining of happiness combined with a cute little nose and
freckles made her pleasant on the eyes. When she smiled her nose would
crinkle and her eyes shine. I watch and listened to their conversation
while I had my hot chocolate. 

Now, I hate to do this yet again, but some of you are rolling your
eyes and thinking, "what a creeper, why is he starring at her?" You
would of course be incorrect. It is possible to observe a conversation
and not be starring or obtrusive. I am sure many of you have observed
without starring before. It is part of the art of people watching. It
is rather easy to do and only involves paying other things as much
attention as you are giving your chosen interest. 

It helped to cheer me up, observing the co-workers in conversation. I
left in much better spirits then I arrived with.


